
9

Automatic Zoom
Genetic  Programming  and  Evolvable  Machines                        (2026)  27:2  1 Introduction
Construction heuristics play an important role in metaheuristics by providing a start-ing point for the search [1]. Prior to the emergence of hyper-heuristics [2], construc-tion heuristics were manually derived. Generation constructive hyper-heuristics are 
effective at creating construction heuristics for combinatorial optimization problems 
[2], i.e., to automate the process of creating construction heuristics. Previous work in 
the field has shown that construction heuristics produced by generation constructive 
hyper-heuristics have outperformed manually-derived heuristics. [2–4].Genetic programming [5](GP) is generally used in generation constructive hyper-heuristics to create new construction heuristics. Since the inception of genetic pro-gramming generation constructive hyper-heuristics there have been advances in the 
field of genetic programming. This study investigates whether two such advances, 
namely,  transfer  learning  [6–8]  and  structure-based  genetic  programming  [9–11], improves the performance of generation constructive hyper-heuristics for combina-torial optimization.Transfer learning in genetic programming involves transferring knowledge from a source GP algorithm to a target GP algorithm to improve the performance of the target  GP  in  terms  of  program  quality  and/or  computational  cost.  The  source  GP  algorithm is used to solve a simpler problem, while the target GP algorithm a more complicated  problem.  Knowledge  generally  transferred  includes  program  trees  or  subtrees.  Previous  work  has  shown  that  GP  with  transfer  learning  performs  better  than canonical GP [12].
Traditionally, genetic programming uses fitness to direct the search in the program space. Structure-based genetic programming directs the search using both fitness and 
structure. Research in this area has shown that structure-based genetic programming is able to escape local optima and outperform canonical genetic programming [9–11].This  study  compares  the  performance  of  canonical  genetic  programming  (CGP-HH), structure-based genetic programming (SBGP-HH) and structure-based genetic programming  with  transfer  learning  (SBGP-HH-TL)  in  generation  constructive  hyper-heuristics. The performance of these hyper-heuristics were evaluated on three combinatorial optimisation problems, namely, the examination timetabling problem, the one-dimensional bin packing problem and the capacitated vehicle routing prob-lem. These problem domains were selected for evaluating the approaches because: ● The  examination  timetabling  and  one-dimensional  bin  packing  problems  were  
the first two problem domains that genetic programming generation constructive 
hyper-heuristics were applied to, and the heuristics generated by the hyper-heu-ristics  outperformed  human-derived  construction  heuristics.  As  such,  previous  genetic  programming  hyper-heuristics  would  serve  as  a  benchmark  to  compare  the performance of SBGP-HH and SBGP-HH-TL to. ● It is also important to compare the performance of these algorithms on a problem domain that genetic programming generation constructive hyper-heuristics have not previously been applied to. The capacitated vehicle routing problem has been included for this reason. ● To evaluate the proposed approaches on different problems. All three of these 1 3
    2   Page  2  of  49
Genetic  Programming  and  Evolvable  Machines...problems are different discrete optimisation problems that represent real-life sce-narios that are being faced in industry.The  study  revealed  that  structure-based  genetic  programming  performed  better  than  canonical  genetic  programming  hyper-heuristics  for  majority  of  the  problem  instances for all three problem domains. Furthermore, the use of transfer learning in 
both CGP-HH and SBGP-HH resulted in performance improvements. This is the first 
study  to  the  knowledge  of  the  authors  using  structure-based  genetic  programming  and structure-based genetic programming with transfer learning to improve the per-formance  of  generation  constructive  hyper-heuristics. Thus,  the  main  contributions  of this research are: ● An  improvement  in  performance  of  genetic  programming  generation  construc-tive hyper-heuristics for discrete optimisation using structure-based genetic pro-gramming. ● An  improvement  in  the  performance  of  genetic  programming  generation  con-structive hyper-heuristics using structure-based genetic programming and trans-fer learning.The following section provides an overview of the related work, namely, construc-tive hyper-heuristics, transfer learning, structure-based genetic programming and the three problem domains used in this study to evaluate the performance of the proposed approaches. The canonical genetic programming algorithm as well as transfer learn-ing  in  CGP-HH  are  presented  in  3.  Section  4  describes  the  structure-based  genetic  programming algorithm used in this study and transfer learning in SBGP-HH. The experimental  setup  used  to  evaluate  the  approaches  is  presented  in  section  5.  Sec-tion 6 discusses and compares the performance of CGP-HH, SBGP-HH and SBGP-
HH-TL. Finally, a summary of the findings of the study and future work is presented 
in section 7.
2 Related work
This  section  provides  an  overview  of  generation  constructive  hyper-heuristics,  transfer  learning  and  structure-based  genetic  programming.  Section  2.1  describes  constructive hyper-heuristics. Section 3.1 introduces transfer learning in genetic pro-gramming and provides a brief survey of transfer learning in genetic programming. Section  2.3  introduces  structure-based  genetic  programming  and  provides  an  over-view of previous studies using structure-based GP. The section then describes each of the problem domains, namely, the examination timetabling problem (section 2.4), the  one  dimensional  bin  packing  problem  (section  2.5)  and  the  capacitated  vehicle  routing problem(section 2.6). For each of the problems an overview of the problem is 
firstly given. The construction heuristics specific to the problem are then described. 
Finally, state of the art techniques for each of the problems are presented.1 3
Page  3  of  49      2 
Genetic  Programming  and  Evolvable  Machines                        (2026)  27:2  2.1 Hyper-heuristics
Essentially  when  solving  a  combinatorial  optimisation  problem  the  solution  space  is  explored.  Hyper-heuristics  explore  a  heuristic  space  instead  of  a  solution  space  [2].  The  heuristic  space  is  mapped  to  the  solution  space.  The  space  explored  by  a  hyper-heuristic  can  contain  constructive  heuristics  for  creating  a  solution  or  initial  point in the search space or perturbative heuristics for improving an initial point. For example, in using a genetic algorithm to solve a routing problem exploring the solu-tion space, each element of the population will be a route. However, a hyper-heuristic 
will explore the space of construction or perturbative heuristics to find the combina-tion of heuristics or heuristic to create a new solution (construction) or to improve an existing solution (perturbative). As this paper focuses on generation constructive hyper-heuristics, we provide an overview of constructive hyper-heuristics. Construc-tive hyper-heuristics select or create constructive heuristics that create an initial solu-tion/point  in  the  solution  space  by  exploring  the  heuristic  space  [2,  13].  Selection  constructive hyper-heuristics select the constructive heuristic to be used at each point when creating a solution. These construction heuristics are human-derived. Genera-tion constructive hyper-heuristics create new constructive heuristics.
Generation constructive hyper-heuristics combine problem-specific attributes with 
arithmetic and or selection operators to create construction heuristics [3, 4, 14–17]. Genetic  programming  has  predominately  been  used  for  this  purpose  in  generation  constructive  hyper-heuristics.  The  examination  timetabling  problem  and  the  one-dimensional bin packing problem are the two domains that generation constructive 
hyper-heuristics have proven to be very effective for, outperforming human-derived 
heuristics [2].While this study focuses on generation constructive hyper-heuristics, we compare the  performance  of  the  proposed  hyper-heuristics  to  selection  constructive  hyper-heuristics  as  well  generation  constructive  hyper-heuristics  in  section  6.4.  Selection  constructive  hyper-heuristics  select  the  construction  heuristics  to  apply  in  order  to  create a solution.
2.2 Transfer learning in genetic programming generation hyper-heuristics
Transfer  learning  in  neural  networks  involves  freezing  certain  layers  in  the  neural  network  and  only  training  certain  layers  [18].  Transfer  learning  has  proven  to  be  
effective in neural networks, resulting in performance improvements, a reduction in 
training time and a reduction in the amount of data needed. This has led to researchers examining the use of transfer learning in evolutionary algorithms including genetic programming. Genetic programming with transfer learning has been used for image 
classification [19],  evolving  policy  rules  [7],  feature  or  data  transfer  [20,  21]  and  symbolic regression [12, 22, 23]. We restrict our survey of previous work to symbolic regression as this application is relevant to this study.Transfer  learning  in  generation  constructive  hyper-heuristics  employing  genetic  programming involves the same process as transfer learning in genetic programming for  symbolic  regression  [13],  hence  we  provide  an  overview  of  studies  involving  both below. Transfer learning in genetic programming involves transferring knowl-1 3
    2   Page  4  of  49
Genetic  Programming  and  Evolvable  Machines...edge from a source genetic programming algorithm to a target genetic programming algorithm [12, 24]. The source genetic programming algorithm is usually applied to a simpler problem with the aim of extracting knowledge that can be used by the target genetic programming algorithm in solving a more complicated problem with the aim of producing better solutions and/or reducing computational cost by transferring the knowledge. Transfer learning has resulted in the improvement of the quality of solu-tion programs produced, as well as a reduction in computational cost.There have been various studies on the use of transfer of learning in genetic pro-
gramming, these generally differ in terms of the knowledge transferred. In earlier 
work elements of the population, i.e., syntax trees, were transferred as is or as a set of  subtrees  from  the  source  genetic  programming  algorithms  to  the  target  genetic  programming  algorithm  [6,  8,  12,  22].  The  knowledge  is  usually  used  in  creating  the initial population of the target genetic programming algorithm. These trees and subtrees represent points in the search space. Scheepers and Pillay [6] show the effec-tiveness of transferring areas of the search space instead of points. Mei et al. [8] trans-ferred elements of the terminal set and the function set. More recently, Liu et al. [25] introduced the concept of transferring mutual information between source and target genetic programming algorithms. A mutual information extractor is used to identify subtrees  to  transfer  from  the  source  genetic  programming  algorithm  to  the  target  genetic  programming  algorithm. The  extractor  calculates  a  probability  of  selecting  a subtree based on the target data and primitives in common with the target genetic programming algorithm. In all these studies GP with transfer learning outperformed canonical GP and in some instances produced results competitive with state-of-the-art approaches and lower computational cost.The potential of using transfer learning in genetic programming and hence genera-tion constructive hyper-heuristics is clear. Thus, we include transfer learning in the structure-based  genetic  programming  hyper-heuristic  in  this  study  and  evaluate  it  further.
2.3 Structure-based genetic programming
Fitness directs the search in genetic programming. Structure-based genetic program-ming was introduced in [9] to escape local optima in canonical genetic programming. 
Structure-based genetic programming uses structure and fitness to direct the search. 
Structure is used to direct the search to perform exploitation (local level search) in a particular area or to perform exploration (global level search) if a local optimum has been reached. When performing local level search a similarity index is used to ensure 
the search is performed in a specific area, i.e., all the elements of the population are 
the same for n levels of the tree. Similarly, when performing a global level search a similarity index is used to ensure that areas that previously led to a local optimum 
are not revisited. Structure-based genetic programming was used to find solutions to 
complex problems in automatic programming which canonical genetic programming could not solve.Kapoor and Pillay [10, 11] compared the performance of canonical genetic pro-gramming  and  structure-based  genetic  programming  for  neural  architecture  search  
for image classification and video shorts creation. Structure-based genetic program-1 3
Page  5  of  49      2 
Genetic  Programming  and  Evolvable  Machines                        (2026)  27:2  ming outperformed canonical genetic programming and genetic algorithms for neu-
ral architecture search for both image classification and video shorts creation.
Structure-based  genetic  programming  has  not  been  used  in  generation  hyper-heuristics.  It  is  also  a  fairly  new  variation  of  genetic  programming  with  not  much  research into its use, except for the study described above. Given that it has outper-formed canonical genetic programming in all applications thus far, we hypothesise that it will provide an improvement in performance over canonical genetic program-ming generation construction hyper-heuristics.
2.4 Examination timetabling problem (ETP)
2.4.1 Overview
The  examination  timetabling  problem  involves  the  scheduling  of  exams  in  a  time-table. The goal of the ETP is to schedule all exams in the timetable while adhering to the hard constraints and minimising the number of soft constraints violated. All hard constraints must be met in order for a timetable to be feasible. Thus, a mathematical formulation of the ETP, where n is the number of hard constraints and m is the num-ber of soft constraints, is: 
n∑
i=1
hci=0 
min
m∑
j=1
scj
Examples of hard constraint include there should be no clashes, i.e. no student must be scheduled to write more than one examination at the same time; the room capacity 
must be sufficient for the number of students writing the examination. Examples of 
soft constraints include examinations must be well spaced for students; examinations with  large  numbers  should  be  scheduled  early  in  the  timetable.  The  hard  and  soft  
constraints differ for each dataset.
2.4.2 Constructive hyper-heuristics
There are two types of constructive hyper-heuristics, namely, selection constructive and  generation  constructive.  This  study  focuses  on  generation  constructive  hyper-heuristics, however we also compare the performance of the hyper-heuristics in this study to selection constructive hyper-heuristics in section 6.4 thus this section pro-vides and overview of previous work using both these constructive hyper-heuristics for the ETP.Various selection constructive hyper-heuristics have been applied to the ITC 2007 examination timetabling dataset. Pillay [26] employed a genetic algorithm selection constructive hyper-heuristic for the examination timetabling problem. Each chromo-some was a combination of construction heuristics that were applied in sequence to 1 3
    2   Page  6  of  49
Genetic  Programming  and  Evolvable  Machines...create an initial timetable. The selection hyper-heuristics performed better than the human-derived construction heuristics.The  selection  constructive  hyper-heuristic  employed  by  Sabar  et  al.  [27]  com-bine  four  construction  heuristics,  namely,  largest  degree,  saturation  degree,  largest  coloured degree and largest enrolment, hierarchically. The hyper-heuristic produced competitive results outperforming some of the state of the art techniques for the ITC 2007 benchmark set.Soghier and Qu [28] used bin packing construction heuristics to select slots and rooms to all allocate examinations in to create timetables. The selection hyper-heu-ristic  makes  a  random  initial  selection  of  the  construction  heuristics  which  is  then  iteratively improved. The hyper-heuristics produced competitive results.Rahman  et  al.  [29]  proposed  an  approach  that  selected  combinations  of  heuris-
tics based on the difficulty of assigning exams. Thereafter, the exams were sorted in descending order based on this difficulty score and each inserted sequentially into a 
slot  that  would  cause  the  smallest  soft  constraint  cost  increase. This  approach  per-formed well on the ITC 2007 dataset.Generation constructive hyperheuristics have not been as well researched as selec-tion  constructive  hyperheuristics.  In  the  study  conducted  by  Pillay  and  Ozcan  [3] a  genetic  programming  generation  constructive  hyper-heuristic  was  used  to  create  arithmetic  construction  heuristics  for  the  examination  timetabling  problem.  The  evolved heuristics produced better results than the human-derived heuristics, namely, largest degree, saturation degree, largest weighted degree, largest colour degree and largest enrolment, for the ITC 2007 benchmark problem set and also outperformed the hierarchical heuristics produced by a genetic algorithm for the problem set.
2.4.3 State of the art
This  section  provides  an  overview  of  the  state  of  the  art  approaches  applied  to  the  ITC 2007 benchmark set. The performance of the hyper-heuristics proposed in this study are compared to these approaches in section 6.5.Muller  [30]  employed  a  three-phase  algorithm  to  solve  the  ETP.  First,  an  itera-tive local search was used to construct a feasible solution. Second, hill climbing was applied to the initial solution to reduce soft constraint cost. Finally, the great deluge algorithm was applied. This approach was the winner for the ITC 2007 competition.Atsuta et al. [31] employed a single-point search which iteratively searched locally from an initial solution point, marking local optima as tabu. The approach proved to 
be effective and placed third in the ITC 2007 competition.
Gogos et al. [32] presented a three-phase algorithm that achieved second place in the ITC 2007 exam track. First, an initial solution was created using the saturation degree  construction  heuristic.  Iterative  local  search  was  applied  to  the  initial  time-table to achieve feasibility. Finally, the great deluge search was used to minimise the soft constraint cost.In the study conducted by Bykov and Petrovic [33] the initial solution was also constructed using a saturation degree heuristic to select the the period while the room was randomly selected. Late acceptance hill-climbing was used to improve the ini-1 3
Page  7  of  49      2 
Genetic  Programming  and  Evolvable  Machines                        (2026)  27:2  tial solution. The approach produced best results for some of the ITC 2007 problem instances.Rajah  [34]  proposed  a  multi-point  search  meta-heuristic  algorithm  for  ETP  to  search the space of partial solutions. An initial solution was created using the satura-tion degree heuristic. Partial solutions were grouped into areas based on the timetable structure. The search focused on optimising within groups of partial solutions during construction until a complete solution was found. Perturbative heuristics were applied to perform exploitation between partial solutions within the same search space. The approach produced best results for some of the ITC 2007 problem instances.Van Bulk et al. [35] employed multi-neighbourhood simulated annealing to solve the ITC-2007 examination timetabling problem. The study compares performing 1, 10 and a 100 runs of the proposed approach. Performing a 100 runs produced the best performance producing the best results for seven of the problem instances.
2.5 One-dimensional bin packing problem (ODBPP)
2.5.1 Overview
The ODBPP presents a problem where items of variable sizes are to be assigned to 
bins of fixed capacity so as to minimise the amount of bins required for all items to 
be assigned. This problem is an NP-hard problem [36].
For each ODBPP problem instance the following specifications are define: ● List of items with specified sizes. ● The capacity of the bins. ● All items are at most as large as a bin. ● As many bins as necessary may be used for all items to be assigned. ● Each item is to be assigned to exactly one bin. ● A  bin  may  contain  more  than  one  item,  but  may  not  contain  a  combination  of  items in which their total size exceeds the capacity of the bin.Violating  any  of  the  last  two  constraints  would  result  in  a  infeasible  solution. The  objective is to minimise the number of bins that contain at least one item each. Thus, a mathematical formulation of the problem with n the number of bins, i representing the ith bin in the range 1...m, oj is the jth item in bin bi and ci the capacity of the ith bin is: 
min
n∑
i=1
bi
where for each i: 
m∑
j=1
oj<=ci1 3
    2   Page  8  of  49
Genetic  Programming  and  Evolvable  Machines...2.5.2 Constructive hyper-heuristics
This section provides an overview of the selection and generation and construction hyper-heuristics that the generation hyper-heuristics are compared to in section 6.4.In the selection constructive hyper-heuristic employed by Ross et al. [37] construc-tion heuristics are selected based on the state of the art solution under construction. A messy genetic algorithm was used to drive the search. This approach provided the means of intelligently selecting construction heuristics based on the state of the prob-lems. The hyper-heuristic outperformed the human-derived construction heuristics.Pillay [38] presented two selection constructive hyper-heuristics employing genetic  algorithms.  One  was  used  to  select  bins  for  receiving  items  and  the  other  selected  both  the  bin  and  the  item  to  be  assigned  to  the  bin.  Both  hyper-heuristics  outperformed the human-derived heuristics with the second hyper-heuristic outper-
forming the first.The first application of generation constructive hyper-heuristics for combinatorial 
optimisation was for the one-dimensional bin packing problem. Burke and Hyde [4, 16, 17] examined the use of genetic programming generation construction hyper-heu-ristics  for  the  one-dimensional,  two-dimensional,  three-dimensional  and  knapsack  packing  problems.  The  evolved  heuristics  outperformed  human-derived  heuristics  and produced results comparative to that of state of the art approaches.Sim  and  Hart  [14]  employ  a  single-node  genetic  programming  generation  con-structive  hyper-heuristic  for  the  ODBPP. An  island  model  is  used  to  search  in  dif-ferent  areas  of  the  heuristic  space  simultaneously.  Each  island  produced  heuristics  capable  of  solving  more  than  one  problem  instance  of  ODBPP  optimally. A  list  of  heuristics was maintained to solve any new unseen problem instance. The approach outperformed previous constructive hyper-heuristics.A  generation  construction  hyper-heuristic  inspired  by  human  immune  systems  was employed by Sim et al. [39]. The proposed system maintained a population of generated heuristics in which each heuristic produced a better result than the other heuristics for one or more problem instances. In a later work [40] this approach was extended to include an improved mutation operator. The approach outperformed pre-vious constructive hyper-heuristic approaches.Singh  and  Pillay  [41]  present  an  ant  colony  optimisation  generation  construc-
tive hyper-heuristic. Pheromone maps of different dimensions were evaluated in the 
study. Three dimensional maps produced the best results. The hyper-heuristic outper-formed human-derived heuristics.
2.5.3 State of the art
A metaheuristic to construct and optimise a solution for the ODBPP was proposed by Alvim et al. [42]. The algorithm comprised the following phases: constructing an initial  solution  using  bin  selection  heuristics,  distributing  the  load  according  to  the  
dominance of the items, balancing the load between the bins and finally fixing any 
infeasibilities. The hyper-heuristic produced good results for the Faulkenauer dataset.Fleszar and Charalambous [43] proposed a bin selection algorithm that took into account  the  average  weight  of  packed  items.  Reduction  and  perturbative  methods  1 3
Page  9  of  49      2 
Genetic  Programming  and  Evolvable  Machines                        (2026)  27:2  were  used  to  further  improve  an  initial  solution  created  using  the  minimum  slack  heuristic. The approach achieved optimal values for the Scholl datasets.Dokeroglu and Cosar [44] presented a grouping genetic algorithm and bin selec-tion heuristics to obtain solutions for ODBPP datasets. The approach was applied to a number of datasets including the Scholl dataset. The approach solved 90% of the instances to optimality.Quiroz-Castellanos et al. [45] presented a grouping genetic algorithm that explored the solution space. The approach controlled the balance between diversity (explora-tion)  and  selective  pressure  (exploitation),  thus  reducing  the  chances  of  premature  convergence. The approach solved all instances of the Scholl dataset to optimality.Kucukyilmaz and Kiziloz [46] proposed a hybrid of an island model and a grouping genetic model. The algorithm was scalable and could be parallelised to improve com-putation cost. The approach solved all instances of the Scholl dataset to optimality.Silva and Borges [47] proposed a hybrid metaheuristics, including a genetic algo-rithm, to solve the ODBPP. The hybrid model was used to avoid getting stuck in local optima as a result of using the genetic algorithm. From the results, it was shown that optimal values were achieved for nearly all instances of the Falkenauer dataset
2.6 Capacitated vehicle routing problem (CVRP)
2.6.1 Overview
This  problem  domain  is  an  extension  of  the  famous,  NP-hard,  travelling  salesman  problem. The goal is to minimise the total distance covered to visit customers with 
different geographic locations while adhering to hard constraints.For each CVRP problem instance the following is specified: ● A depot and a set of customers exist each of which contain two-dimensional co-ordinates. ● Customers also have a demand value and a service time. ● The service time is the same for all customers. ● Vehicles with a fixed capacity and maximum cost ● A customer can only be serviced by exactly one vehicle. ● Each vehicle needs to start and end its journeys at the depot. ● The vehicles can service as many customers as long as the cumulative demand of its selected customers does not exceed its capacity. ● Each vehicle has its own route containing the customers that it will service. ● The cost of a vehicle is calculated as the total distance covered by the vehicle plus the service time spent at each customer. The cost of each vehicle may not exceed 
a predefined cost.
The objective is to minimise the total distance covered by all vehicles over all routes. Mathematically, this can be expressed as:1 3
    2   Page  10  of  49
Genetic  Programming  and  Evolvable  Machines... 
min
m∑
i=1
Ri
where each Ri is: 
Ri=
n∑
j=1
cji+
n∑
j=1
sj
The objective value to be minimized is the sum of the cost of m routes Ri. The cost of  each  route  is  the  sum  of  the  cost  cji  of  travelling  between  two  customers  for  n customers plus the sum of the service fee for each customer.There is no limit to the number of vehicles that can be used to solve the problem.
2.6.2 State of the art
Taillard  [48]  proposed  an  approach  that  iteratively  inserts  selected  customers  into  routes  while  keeping  a  memory  for  tabu  routes. This  approach  also  decomposed  a  given  problem  instance  into  sub-problems  according  to  sectors  around  the  depot,  which allowed solving these sub-problems in parallel. Furthermore, routes were indi-vidually optimised using an algorithm by Volgenant and Jonker [49]. Optimal solu-tions were found for some of the problem instances.Rochat  and  Taillard  [50]  proposed  a  local  search  method  that  used  adaptive  memory. This approach used a tournament of quality solutions that could be added or removed accordingly. Best known solutions were found for two instances of the 
Christofides dataset.
Xu  and  Kelly  [51] presented the solution to the problem as a graph with differ-ent  partial  solutions  as  vertices  and  applied  a  tabu  search  for  optimisation.  Route  optimisations were also performed using an algorithm by Lin [52]. The results were comparable to state of the art approaches.Toth and Vigo [53] proposed a granular tabu search algorithm. The algorithm was designed  to  eliminate  long  edges  between  customers  within  the  routes.  The  algo-rithms iteratively swaps routes between neighbouring solutions where the distances exceeded  a  threshold.  This  threshold  gradually  allowed  for  more  solutions  when  improvements  could  not  be  found.  Some  solutions  were  shown  to  match  those  of  state of the art approaches.
3 Canonical genetic programming hyper-heuristic
This  section  describes  the  canonical  GP  algorithm.  The  algorithm  CGP-HH  is  
firstly presented. The section then describes transfer learning used in the algorithm 
CGP-HH-TL.The generational GP algorithm [5] depicted in Algorithm [5] is used in this study. 
The algorithm iteratively refines an initial population over a number of generations. 1 3
Page  11  of  49      2 
